First draft of blog post for Flask SCIM server with Okta (#830)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-09-01-flask-scim-server.md

- [virtualenv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/)

### Setting Up the Flask Server and Postgres DB 
{% img blog/flask-scim-server/flask_postgres.png alt:"PostgreSQL and Flask Logos Image" width:"500" %}

1.  Clone the repo found [here](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-scim-flask-example), open terminal and `cd` into the project root.
2.  Create a new virtualenv in the root folder with `virtualenv env`.
3.  Run the virtual environment with `source env/bin/activate`.
4.  Install necessary Python packages with ```pip install -r requirements.txt```.
5.  Install [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/download/).
6.  Create a new Postgres database named `scim`. Enter the `psql` shell by opening a new terminal tab and typing `psql postgres`. Create the DB with `CREATE DATABASE scim;` (Run `\list` to double-check the database has been created).
7.  Go back to the terminal tab that is in the flask app root. Run the following commands to create migrations and tables in the `scim` database:
    - `python manage.py db init`
    - `python manage.py db migrate`
    - `python manage.py db upgrade`
    

>     > Feel free to hop back to your Postgres tab and run `\c scim` to navigate into the scim db, then `\dt` to see your new tables: `groups`, `users`, `link`. (Link is a table facilitating the many-to-many relationship between users and groups)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Feel free to hop back to your Postgres tab and run `\c scim` to navigate into the scim db, then `\dt` to see your new tables: `groups`, `users`, `link`. (`link` is a table facilitating the many-to-many relationship between users and groups.)
```

> 8. Everything should be set up now to run the server locally. Finally, run `python app.py` to do so. You should now have your SCIM server running on http://localhost:5000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Everything should be set up now to run the server locally. Finally, run `python app.py` to do so. You should now have your SCIM server running on `http://localhost:5000`.
```

7. In the Base URL field, paste in the ngrok url you generated above with **/scim/v2** appended to the end. In the API Token field, type **Bearer 123456789**. (Later on we will go over how to customize this auth header, but out-of-the-box, the SCIM server expects this value.)
8. Click **Test API Credentials** and you should get a success message like the below:

    {% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_1.png alt:"Test Api Credentials UI Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

    > You can check the ngrok logs by navigating to `http://localhost:4040` to see the request from Okta as well as the response from the SCIM server.

    {% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_2.png alt:"Test Api Credentials Call Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

9. Click **Save**. Now your **Provisoning** tab will look a bit different.

10. Click **Edit** next to **Provisioning to App** and check off:
    - **Create Users**
    - **Update User Attributes**
    - **Deactivate Users**
    
And **Save**.

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_3.png alt:"Provisioning Settings Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

#### Option 2: Enable SCIM Provisioning for Existing App Integration Wizard (AIW) App

> > Feel free to skip over this section to **Test the SCIM Server** if you set your SCIM integration up above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Feel free to skip over this section to **Test the SCIM Server** if you set up your SCIM integration above.
```
instead of splitting "set up"

7. Now your **Provisoning** tab will look a bit different. Click **Edit** next to **Provisioning to App** and check off:
    - Create Users
    - Update User Attributes
    - Deactivate Users
    
And **Save**.

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_7.png alt:"AIW Provisioning Settings Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

You should now be set on the Okta side to start testing the SCIM server.

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/frodo.webp alt:"AIW Provisioning Settings Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

### What Did We Just Do?

Before we go ahead and test our SCIM server, let's talk a bit about what we did in the setup steps above. Essentially we set up the following 3 components:

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/flow_1.png alt:"SCIM FLow IMage" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

In this setup, Okta is the source of truth for user data. The SCIM server opens up four endpoints locally, which Okta is able to access thanks to the routing capabilities of ngrok. These endpoints are:

- `https://localhost:5000/scim/v2/Users`
- `https://localhost:5000/scim/v2/Users/{user_id}`
- `https://localhost:5000/scim/v2/Groups`
- `https://localhost:5000/scim/v2/Groups/{group_id}`

> These endpoints trigger CRUD operations based off the requests from Okta. Some examples of these calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These endpoints trigger [CRUD operations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) based off the requests from Okta. Some examples of these calls:
```
adding link to CRUD definition

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_8.png alt:"Database New User Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

#### Unassign a User

Let's go ahead and unassign the user we just assigned in Okta. Under **Assignments**, click the **X** next to the user we just assigned:

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_9.png alt:"UI Unassign User Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

The request/response should look like this:
 - *Okta Request:*

```http
PATCH /scim/v2/Users/289383d9-ff3a-48bb-99ea-3048762267c7
```

```json
{
    "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:PatchOp"
    ],
    "Operations": [
        {
            "op": "replace",
            "value": {
                "active": false
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> Okta does not delete an unassigned user but rather updates their `active` value to `false`.

 - *SCIM Server Response:*

```http
204 NO CONTENT
```

- And sure enough, if you run that same `select * from users;` in the scim db, you will see the user is now `active: false`:

{% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_10.png alt:"Database Inactive User Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

#### Assign a Group

> Under the **Assignments** tab, click **Assign** -> **Assign to Groups**. I assigned group **Droids**. Note that this behavior is similar to the way individual users were assigned above. Okta will iterate through the group membership and create the users in the external SCIM server - but the Group itself won't be made. That is done in **Push Groups** which we will handle later. Here is a look at the requests and responses from Okta to the SCIM server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the **Assignments** tab, click **Assign** -> **Assign to Groups**. I assigned group **Droids**. Note that this behavior is similar to the way individual users were assigned above. Okta will iterate through the group membership and create the users in the external SCIM server - but the Group itself won't be made. That is done in **Push Groups**, which we will handle later. Here is a look at the requests and responses from Okta to the SCIM server:
```
add comma

                {
                    "value": "cc2573a1-e1c4-491d-a3db-ae4a2e078d61",
                    "display": "bb-8@iamciam.dev"
                },
                {
                    "value": "478c4cf4-1aa3-41a1-93da-4c154c5955e0",
                    "display": "c-3po@iamciam.dev"
                },
                {
                    "value": "34e14e58-f0fe-4e9d-aeb2-0da25fa6626d",
                    "display": "r2-d2@iamciam.dev"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

 - *SCIM Server Response:*

 ```http
 200 OK
 ```
 
 ```json
 {
    "displayName": "Droids",
    "id": "b446521a-a65b-4c0b-a5ee-0a15e8e3e908",
    "members": [
        {
            "display": "c-3po@iamciam.dev",
            "value": "478c4cf4-1aa3-41a1-93da-4c154c5955e0"
        },
        {
            "display": "bb-8@iamciam.dev",
            "value": "cc2573a1-e1c4-491d-a3db-ae4a2e078d61"
        },
        {
            "display": "r2-d2@iamciam.dev",
            "value": "34e14e58-f0fe-4e9d-aeb2-0da25fa6626d"
        }
    ],
    "meta": {
        "resourceType": "Group"
    },
    "schemas": [
        "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:Group"
    ]
 }
 ```
 

> And with this, you should now see your group in the scim database after running `select * from groups;`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And with this, you should now see your group in the SCIM database after running `select * from groups;`:
```
uppercase SCIM

 
{% img blog/flask-scim-server/scim_12.png alt:"Database Groups Image" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
 

>  As well as a link table which displays the many-to-many relationship between the users and groups. You can see this with `select * from link;`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 And you can view the link table, which displays the many-to-many relationship between the users and groups. You can see this with `select * from link;`:
```
adjust sentence fragment, add comma before which
